---
id:card_targeting
title:Targeting
---

![Targeting](/docs/card_targeting_1.jpg)

The targeting screen is where the weapons are fired from. Targets are objects or
ships which can first be targeted and then fired at. Weapons will not hit an
object unless the object is first targeted.

The targeting screen has four sections: The targeting grid, the target details,
the phaser banks, and the torpedo launchers.

### Targeting Grid

The targeting grid shows all of the contacts that can be targeted and fired at.
The icon and label identify each one. Unless stationary, contacts move around in
a random fashion. Moving the mouse cursor over the contact will eventually
target it (stationary contacts must be clicked/tapped).

When a contact is targeted, the image and label of the contact appears below.
Optional system targeting also becomes available.

### Coordinate Targeting

![Coordinate Targeting](/docs/card_targeting_3.jpg)

The targeting screen also allows for targeting using coordinates. Coordinates
are calculated and sent to Tactical when Sensors clicks on a contact on their
sensor grid. Potential targets do not have to be in weapons range. Contacts are
targeted once the coordinates for the target have been typed in, either with the
on-screen keypad or with the keyboard.

### Phasers

On ships that have more than two phaser banks, the phaser banks appear in a
list. That list includes the current charge and heat levels, and buttons for
firing the phaser bank and cooling the phaser bank with coolant. Phasers must be
charged from the [Phaser Charging](/docs/card_phaser_charging) screen.

Firing the phaser bank heats it up at a rate of 50% ie. one full charge heats it
to 50%. If the phaser bank gets too hot, it will not fire. Phaser banks also
have a cool-down time where they cannot be fired for a few seconds after firing.

### Torpedos

On ships with more than one torpedo launcher, torpedos appear in a grid. That
grid shows the currently loaded torpedo and a button to fire it. That's it.

### Small-ship Layout

![Small Ship Layout](/docs/card_targeting_2.jpg)

On ships with 2 or less phaser banks and 1 torpedo launcher, the configuration
of this screen is different.

The phaser's charge and heat is shown graphically. Buttons for charging and
discharging the phasers are also available from this screen.

The torpedo launcher is shown with the torpedo loaded in it. It also allows for
a torpedo to be loaded by clicking 'Load Torpedo' and then choosing the torpedo
from the list. See [Torpedo Loading](/docs/card_torpedo_loading) for more
information.

## Core

![Targeting Core](/docs/core_targeting.jpg)

Targets are added based on classes of targets that are preconfigured. This
allows you to add a lot of targets of the same variety.

Target classes are created by clicking the green 'Add Targets' button. You can
then change the label, icon, and picture and choose if the contact will move or
be stationary. The red delete button removes the contact.

Contacts are added to the targeting grid by clicking the '+' or '-' buttons or
by clicking on the number and typing in how many contacts you want to show.

When a contact is targeted, the targeted system at the top will turn red as well
as the label field for the class of contact that got targeted. Clicking the red
'Destroy' button will remove the targeted contact with a small explosion.

Coordinate targeting removes all of the controls until a contact is targeted.
Then, the information about the contact is displayed on the core.
